HANDOVER BRIEF — NOBO NOFO & DERIVATIVES
For a Brand New Ewe — 12 September 2026
1. What NoBo NoFo is
Canonical name: NoBo NoFo Strapline: No Book. No Force.
Stanley Jarin has developed a digital mentalism/magic effect whose apparent conditions are unusually clean.
The spectator invents a word and says it aloud. Performer (P) covertly selects a short distinctive word from what they say. Spectator (Sp) then apparently freely chooses an ebook, chapter and page. On that page, their word is found at the predetermined location, normally the first complete sentence.
The core dramatic proposition is now expressed in Stanley's flyer roughly as:
YOU INVENTED A WORD YOU HELD THE PHONE YOU CHOSE A BOOK YOU CHOSE A CHAPTER YOU CHOSE A PAGE YOU FOUND YOUR WORD AND YOU DID IT ALL YOURSELF!
The recent change from THE book/chapter/page to A book/chapter/page is deliberate and important: it strengthens the apparent freedom.
On the flyer's RH panel, Stanley changed “YOU MIGHT THINK...” to “THEY MIGHT SAY...” because the former could inadvertently imply the spectator merely thinks the choices are free. The latter introduces plausible spectator dialogue without weakening the claim.
The isolated AND beginning the final payoff was retained after independent tribunal member Karen preferred it. Stanley agrees.

2. Current NoBo system
The existing working NoBo is a PWA/web application running on P's phone.
Important terminology:
P = Performer Sp = Spectator
Do NOT claim current NoBo runs on Sp's phone. That error has already been made repeatedly.
The useful mental model Stanley established today is:
index.html = ENGINE book .json files = FUEL
The engine handles UI, navigation, state, sockets, H2G2 covert input, cleanup etc. The JSON corpus supplies books/chapters/pages/text.
The text corpus contains prepared $$$$ sockets. When a force word is armed, the engine can insert that word into the appropriate prepared text.

3. H2G2 — the Special Sauce
The covert input mechanism uses a fake Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy environment, abbreviated H2G2.
This is how P secretly communicates/selects the force word.
The existing NoBo state machinery has already been extensively developed and tested. Do NOT casually reopen old engineering questions or demand wholesale retesting.
Important existing states include:
READY / ARMED / AUTO-PAID / PAID / CLEAN
The machinery was signed off during earlier development.
The H2G2 input principle survives today's proposed derivative essentially unchanged.
Stanley's summary of the new architecture:
“Same NoBo bullshit stands. H2G2.”
Correct interpretation: H2G2 still determines/arms the force word. What changes is where the spectator-facing reader runs.

4. Existing corpus / reader
NoBo already has a substantial prepared corpus and reader system.
Existing titles include material based around:
	•	Mike Bloomfield biography
	•	Steve Jobs
	•	Keith Richards, Life
	•	Hunter S. Thompson
	•	Hemingway
	•	P. G. Wodehouse
	•	Huckleberry Finn
	•	The Sot-Weed Factor
	•	H2G2 as covert-input reference/environment
The corpus has undergone multiple passes of pagination and editorial refinement.
Important pagination/socket rule:
If a page contains a $$$$ socket, the sentence containing it must be the FIRST COMPLETE SENTENCE on that page.
Ideally the page begins with the tail end of the preceding sentence. This allows P naturally to correct Sp to:
“the first complete sentence.”
Do NOT casually rewrite the corpus. Previous strategy was explicitly changed from wholesale rewrites to targeted local fixes.

5. Cleanup / end-clean philosophy
A major NoBo principle is fake → real kill.
After the force has done its job, dirty material/state should disappear where practical, leaving the spectator with something innocuous/real.
Existing system behaviour includes session cleanup: other sockets clean when Sp leaves the selected page; the discovered occurrence can persist for that session. Hidden RESET restores pristine state.
This principle becomes particularly important in today's new derivative.

6. TODAY'S MAJOR DISCOVERY — ReaList
Stanley investigated ReaList by Greg Rostami because it apparently performs a digital force on the spectator's own phone.
This was interesting specifically because current NoBo uses P's phone, not Sp's.
We investigated the public performance and the website.
ReaList directs Sp to search for “G Stats”. Search results lead to:
google-stats.com
That site is controlled scenery resembling a Google statistics/trends environment.
Stanley inspected it with Firefox Developer Tools. Network traffic made it clear that it is its own web application rather than genuine Google Trends.
The important transferable principle is NOT Rostami's material or force.
It is:
Spectator-owned hardware can run performer-controlled scenery.
Also useful: Google Search effectively authenticates Rostami's destination for the spectator. However, Stanley immediately recognised that relying upon search ranking would be undesirable for NoBo.
The site also appeared deliberately semantically bland internally — many directories/resources appearing as “generic”. Stanley interpreted this as possible casual-snoop camouflage:
nothing / nothing / nothing / more nothing
This is inference, not established fact.
The lesson is not to steal ReaList's material. Stanley's wording was that he was interested in whether there was anything worthwhile to “steal...as a principle, not material.”

7. PROJECT GUTENBERG DISCOVERY
Stanley then examined the genuine Project Gutenberg mobile homepage.
This was the breakthrough.
The genuine mobile site is almost absurdly suitable as NoBo scenery.
It prominently establishes:
“Project Gutenberg is a library of 79,369 free eBooks”
[Count observed 12 September 2026; naturally subject to change.]
Immediately beneath that is a horizontally scrollable New Releases selection of roughly ten featured books.
This provides several enormous psychological advantages without P saying anything:
A. Scale
The spectator sees 79,369 books.
Therefore the ten visible covers do not psychologically represent the available library. They are merely ten currently featured items from an enormous universe.
B. Natural ten-book chooser
The horizontally scrollable New Releases shelf is almost exactly the sort of chooser NoBo needs.
C. Temporal deniability
New Releases naturally change.
Therefore if dirty/fake Gutenberg later becomes genuine Gutenberg and the spectator sees different books, this is entirely plausible.
D. Forgiving visual design
Genuine Gutenberg's mobile design is utilitarian:
large type, white background, simple navigation, basic cards/covers.
It should be substantially easier to reproduce convincingly than the Apple Books camouflage developed for existing NoBo.
E. Mechanical correspondence
Gutenberg naturally has almost exactly NoBo's existing structural journey:
library → cover → contents → text
Stanley noted there is lots of extra furniture after selecting a Gutenberg book, but most can be ignored or represented only sufficiently to sell the environment.

8. The proposed derivative — “Gut NoBo” working concept
Do NOT assume this is yet a replacement for existing NoBo.
It is currently a potentially major derivative / NoBo 2.0 architecture discovered today.
The proposition:
NoBo performed entirely on Sp's own phone.
Sp encounters what appears to be Project Gutenberg.
Only one Gutenberg page may need convincing reproduction: essentially the mobile homepage through the New Releases shelf.
The ten controlled books become the doors into the existing NoBo reader machinery.
After selecting one:
cover → contents → chapter/page → text
The existing engine/corpus can largely take over.
Elementary detective work could eventually reveal that the environment was controlled. Stanley explicitly accepts this.
His reasoning:
	•	Magicians already know there is a method.
	•	Friends who become motivated enough to investigate later may discover something fishy.
	•	Most ordinary spectators won't conduct forensic analysis.
	•	We control the environment and cleanup.
Therefore the design target is performance resistance, not forensic resistance.

9. The domain — THE DROPPED-E RANCH
Stanley purchased:
gutenbrg.com
on 12 September 2026 through GoDaddy.
Nickname:
The Dropped-E Ranch
The missing e is deliberately difficult to notice at a glance.
Do not waste time debating whether Stanley owns it. He does.
The domain is independent of eventual hosting and can be pointed wherever required.

10. Hosting discovery
Squarespace was considered.
Conclusion:
Fine for ordinary pages/domain connection; unsuitable as the core NoBo machinery.
The new architecture needs a tiny amount of shared server-side state.
WordPress flashed through Stanley's mind and was discarded:
	•	WordPress.org still needs hosting.
	•	WordPress.com adds platform/branding/complexity.
	•	WordPress is vast overkill for the requirement.
This produced the inevitable joke about:
WordPress Gutenberg editor → fake Gutenberg → Project Gutenberg → Gutenberg Gutenberg Gutenberg...
cf. the grammatically notorious:
Buffalo buffalo Buffalo buffalo buffalo buffalo Buffalo buffalo.

11. Current preferred infrastructure — Cloudflare
Cloudflare Workers emerged as the likely solution.
Stanley read the Wikipedia article and understandably found it incomprehensible.
The ONLY mental model required at present is:
Cloudflare = HOST WEBSITE + REMEMBER WORD
Ignore its thousands of other jobs.
At NoBo's tiny expected traffic level, current Cloudflare free allowances appear likely to make operating cost approximately $0/month, beyond the domain registration.
Possible structure:
gutenbrg.com
contains:
index.html — engine / Gutenberg scenery / NoBo machinery books/*.json — fuel assets — covers/images/etc. tiny shared state — force word/session/state
Cloudflare Workers can provide both static hosting and tiny server logic.
Cloudflare KV or equivalent can remember the tiny shared state.

12. Critical two-phone architecture
This was clarified through several iterations today.
Do NOT say P's phone remotely edits HTML.
It doesn't need to.
The correct model is:
H2 PUSHES — GUT PULLS
P's phone uses H2G2 and secretly determines:
GOPHERS
H2 sends that tiny value to shared online state:
PUSH → GOPHERS
Sp opens gutenbrg.com.
JavaScript in the page automatically asks the server:
What's armed?
Server returns:
GOPHERS
Gut NoBo then arms its own existing $$$$ machinery.
So:
P PHONE / H2G2 ↓ PUSH ONLINE SHARED STATE ↑ PULL SP PHONE / GUT NOBO
Neither phone needs to talk directly to the other.
The “mailbox” analogy was used temporarily, but Stanley asked what the mailbox physically was. Answer: simply a tiny piece of server-side state/database accessible to both phones.
It can conceptually be as small as:

{
  "state": "ARMED",
  "word": "GOPHERS"
}

It needn't literally be a JSON file.
The important conceptual breakthrough:
Current NoBo uses localStorage because H2 and reader inhabit the same phone.
Two-phone NoBo needs essentially:
localStorage on the internet
—that is, shared server state.

13. Timing
There should be no need to rebuild or redeploy HTML between force and performance.
Earlier discussion briefly wandered into “recode HTML → upload → wait for propagation.” That is NOT the preferred architecture.
Better:
H2 pushes only the tiny state.
Gut pulls it when the page loads.
Therefore the handoff should potentially be essentially immediate.
If necessary, Gut could poll periodically, but the cleaner choreography is:
P arms first → Sp opens Gut second.
One pull on page load may therefore suffice.

14. Fake → real Gutenberg kill
This is one of the most attractive parts of the concept.
Dirty environment:
gutenbrg.com
Clean destination:
real Project Gutenberg
Because genuine Gutenberg's New Releases change naturally, the spectator later seeing different featured books is not suspicious.
Possible implementation philosophy:
	•	Clone only the performance corridor.
	•	Links outside that corridor may resolve to genuine Gutenberg where useful.
	•	Cleanup can potentially return the spectator to the real site.
	•	Do not waste engineering effort making a complete forensic clone of Gutenberg.
Stanley's succinct observation:
“One page.”
That is the target mentality.

15. Commercialisation — DFB investigation
Stanley is also now thinking beyond engineering toward:
How does a product like NoBo actually get launched?
Digital Force Bag (DFB) is a useful comparison.
DFB is associated with magicians Nick Einhorn and Craig Squires, with specialist magic-app developer Marc Kerstein involved in development.
Useful commercial-role model:
creator(s) — effect/product/performance/marketing specialist developer — hardened commercial software distribution marketplace — exposure/payment/delivery
Stanley correctly identified the missing ingredient in an earlier analysis:
EXPOSURE
Apple's App Store does not merely process downloads/payments. It provides marketplace visibility and legitimacy.
Murphy's Magic similarly provides concentrated exposure to exactly the relevant audience.

16. Murphy's Magic
Murphy's is primarily a magic wholesaler/distributor feeding a worldwide dealer network.
The attraction is not merely fulfilment.
It is access to the magic market.
Stanley is interested in:
	•	what cut Murphy's takes;
	•	dealer margins;
	•	whether Murphy's requires exclusivity;
	•	whether it seeks any IP/ownership;
	•	whether it can merely distribute while Stanley retains ownership;
	•	whether Murphy's could market a web-delivered product;
	•	whether direct sales + Murphy's exposure can coexist.
Do NOT state unverified Murphy's percentages as fact. We have not established their actual current vendor terms.
Desired principle:
Stanley owns NoBo, code/IP/domain/infrastructure.
Distributor distributes.
Any exclusivity, source-code transfer, publishing rights or ownership should be treated as a contractual negotiation, not assumed.

17. Possible commercial architecture
A particularly interesting possibility now exists:
Murphy's/dealers = discovery/shop window Stanley's own hosted service = actual product
A buyer purchases NoBo through dealer/distributor channels but the working system remains web-hosted and controlled by Stanley.
This potentially avoids App Store dependency while retaining trade exposure.
Not decided. Needs expert input.

18. ASM — Monday 14 September 2026
Stanley plans to attend an ASM meeting in Melbourne CBD on Monday 14 September.
There was an earlier failed expedition on Monday 7 September: Stanley went to the expected building and found it dark. The upcoming Monday is the actual/current target.
ASM apparently attracts only roughly 12 attendees.
Stanley's phrase:
“Doesn't sound like a magnet for balloon-twisters, but who knows.”
He coined balloon-twisters while typing and is pleased with it. Retain.
ASM is being treated as an audition of the room.
Do not automatically reveal NoBo methodology.
Earlier standing rule:
Discuss/show at ad level first. Do not reveal the DFB connection or deep methodology until the room proves worthy.
If the room contains sophisticated working magicians, dealers, developers or commercially experienced people, Stanley would particularly like to discuss:
	•	digital magic product development;
	•	DFB/ReaList experience;
	•	specialist magic developers;
	•	Murphy's;
	•	dealer economics;
	•	ownership/IP;
	•	web product versus App Store;
	•	direct sale versus distribution;
	•	how a working prototype becomes a commercial product.
One genuinely knowledgeable person may be more valuable than twelve opinions about the trick.

19. Melbourne Magic Circle — why ASM is being auditioned
Stanley recently attended a major Melbourne magic club meeting at Noble Park after roughly 60 years away from organised magic.
He wrote a long satirical Facebook report:
MAGIC CLUB CONFIDENTIAL — A Reporter's Fearless Field Report
His illustration was generated by ChatGPT's image department. Stanley asked for Jack Davis and was delighted when the result came out much more like Mort Drucker.
The evening struck him successively as:
Dad's Army → The Office / David Brent → Monty Python.
Among the experiences:
	•	supposed inventions that were existing commercial magic;
	•	elementary magic apparatus;
	•	an Egg Bag presented in an “invented/made stuff” context;
	•	interminable cards;
	•	competitors visibly fumbling simple/self-working tricks;
	•	two performers consecutively presenting essentially the same colour-changing stick;
	•	organisational chaos;
	•	contestant No. 11 missing from both divisions;
	•	an MC with an astonishing toupée and ancient joke-book material.
But there were exceptions.
A newly inducted young performer Stanley calls Bob was technically flawless, dry, absurd and hilarious. Stanley can't remember his tricks because the performer mattered more than the tricks. Bob won convincingly.
This matters: Stanley is not simply hostile to magic clubs. He wants people worth talking to.
His position regarding NoBo remains:
“If the room ain't right, I ain't doing it.”

20. Performance / artistic philosophy relevant to NoBo
Stanley's emerging performance persona:
old, dryly wry, mildly professorial experimenter
Aroma of Julius Sumner Miller, with deliberate fallibility and apparent lack of polish used as humour.
Not primarily:
“BEHOLD, I AM A MAGICIAN.”
More:
“Let's see whether this peculiar thing works.”
NoBo therefore benefits from technological machinery that disappears psychologically rather than advertising clever technology.
The effect should feel like something that occurred despite the conditions, not because P has an impressive app.
This is one reason Sp's own phone is such an important potential evolution.

21. Important distinction — effect versus derivative
Do not allow today's excitement to destroy the existing product.
Current NoBo is already extensively engineered.
Gut NoBo / Sp-phone NoBo is a derivative or potential next architecture.
Treat it initially as:
NoBo NoFo → Gut derivative / NoBo 2.0 bench
until Stanley explicitly promotes it to canonical replacement.
There is no need yet to rip apart the working NoBo system.
The discovery is powerful partly because so much existing machinery appears reusable.

22. Immediate technical questions for the New Ewe
The useful questions now are concrete:
	1	Can the existing NoBo engine be separated cleanly from its Apple Books visual shell?
	2	How much of the current JSON corpus can be reused unchanged?
	3	What minimal Gutenberg homepage HTML/CSS must be reproduced?
	4	How do the ten New Release cards map to controlled NoBo books?
	5	What tiny server-state structure is actually needed?
	6	How does H2 authenticate its PUSH so random visitors cannot arm Stanley's show?
	7	How does Sp's session know which P/session it belongs to if NoBo ever has multiple customers?
	8	What is the cleanest cleanup path from dirty Gut to real Gutenberg?
	9	How much of this can live on Cloudflare's free tier?
	10	What changes are necessary to commercialise it for multiple performers rather than Stanley alone?
Do NOT answer all ten merely because they are listed here. They are the bench, not the next command.

23. Things NOT to do
Do not:
	•	say current NoBo uses Sp's phone;
	•	conflate existing NoBo with the new Gut derivative;
	•	reopen signed-off state machinery without cause;
	•	rewrite the corpus wholesale;
	•	assume GitHub Pages must host Gut;
	•	assume Squarespace;
	•	assume WordPress;
	•	claim H2 edits remote HTML;
	•	introduce unnecessary propagation delays;
	•	invent Murphy's commercial percentages;
	•	turn every technical question into an enterprise-software project;
	•	optimise against a spectator using DevTools unless there is a concrete reason;
	•	expose method at ASM before Stanley has judged the room;
	•	tidy the idea until its art direction disappears.

24. The conceptual state at handover
The day began with curiosity about how ReaList could operate on a spectator's own phone.
The chain of reasoning produced:
ReaList → controlled web scenery can run on Sp's hardware → inspect real Gutenberg → Gutenberg homepage is almost purpose-built NoBo camouflage → 79,369 books establishes enormous implied choice → ten changing New Releases provide controlled chooser → existing NoBo already implements library → cover → contents → text → buy gutenbrg.com → The Dropped-E Ranch → host with Cloudflare rather than CMS → H2 PUSHES force state → Gut PULLS force state → existing $$$$ machinery does the rest → possible spectator-phone NoBo derivative → now ask how this becomes a commercial magic product.
The striking thing is how little of the actual NoBo principle may need to change.
Same engine.
Same fuel.
Same H2G2 Special Sauce.
Same $$$$.
Different scenery.
Different phone.
One tiny bridge across the internet.
That is where the Brand New Ewe takes over.
25. Gut moves onto Sp’s phone
This creates a new problem absent from NoBo WORD: how Sp reaches the controlled Gutenberg environment naturally, without P visibly installing or opening anything suspicious, or presenting an obviously magician-created URL.
26. Ten-book Gut library
Gut is now conceived as 10 entirely new Project Gutenberg/public-domain books, rather than reusing the NoBo WORD corpus.
P can continue creating the visual assets; Kryten can build the site/app and associated plumbing as with NoBo.
27. The Dropped-E domain
A deliberately Gutenberg-like domain such as gutenbrg.com was proposed, with the missing e sufficiently unobtrusive to survive casual inspection.
A deliberately long destination path was preferred:
gutenbrg.com/project_library/books/browse/
Multiple folders, slashes and underscores make the URL look infrastructural and discourage close reading. Actual nested folders are not technically required; routing can create the same visible path.
28. The direct-dictation problem
The Dropped-E works visually but poorly when spoken. If P says “Gutenberg dot com,” Sp will naturally type the correctly spelled real address.
Gut therefore needs an innocent entry mechanism that gets Sp to the controlled domain without requiring P to dictate its deceptive spelling.
29. QR considered and disfavoured
ReaList uses a QR-code route in later versions, including covert numeric input hidden in interactions with the QR display.
Gut could technically do likewise, but QR was rejected aesthetically because:
→ it feels derivative of ReaList → it introduces conspicuous modern/high-tech theatre inconsistent with NoBo’s desired feel
30. SMS considered and disfavoured
P could text Sp a URL. But SMS does not provide the same general freedom as HTML to display arbitrary link text while pointing somewhere else.
More importantly, the message remains on Sp’s phone for leisurely post-performance examination.
Not preferred.
31. Browser-history concern
Gut should assume that anything left in Sp’s browser may later be examined.
history.replaceState() can alter the displayed/current history path only within the same origin. It cannot transform gutenbrg.com into gutenberg.com.
Cross-origin address-bar deception is not available through ordinary browser JavaScript.
32. URL shortener revived
A public shortener is psychologically defensible because its declared purpose is to avoid typing a long destination.
is.gd was investigated. It permits custom aliases, subject to availability, so a universal entry such as:
is.gd/shortcuts
is possible.
This was preferred to aliases such as /gutenberg, which would encourage spelling comparison with the eventual destination.
33. Performance wording for the shortener
No elaborate justification should be supplied.
Preferred handling:
“Look, quickest way is to just go to is.gd/shortcuts.”
The word shortcuts explains itself without P drawing attention to URL shortening or Gut.
34. Intermediate directory concept
One proposed destination for is.gd/shortcuts was a deliberately primitive web directory:
→ white background → Times-style typography → blue underlined links → essentially built with “1996’s finest”
The purpose was to let Sp personally tap a visible Books (Gutenberg) link whose underlying destination leads into Gut.
35. Restraint on retro styling
The directory must not become a Geocities joke.
No starfields, animated GIFs, visitor counters, Netscape gags, etc. Those make the page visibly authored.
If retained, it should look merely old and neglected, not deliberately “retro.”
36. Personalised-directory version rejected
An initial idea was an eccentric accumulation of Stanley’s ancient bookmarks — From Apollo to Shuttle, Doonesbury, etc.
This gave the page a plausible history, but Shed correctly preferred depersonalising it.
Gut should not depend on Sp accepting that Stanley conveniently owns a page containing the required Gutenberg link.
37. PUBLIC DOMAIN directory explored
A depersonalised page headed PUBLIC DOMAIN was considered, containing:
→ Books (Gutenberg) → Internet Archive → Wayback Machine → Free Images → Mac OS Tools → User Guides → HTML
It was coherent and plausible, but ultimately began to smell too curated: Gutenberg appeared to be there because somebody had assembled exactly the resources the trick required.
38. The directory problem
This is a fine psychological line.
An intermediate page needs enough reason to exist to seem genuine, but the more carefully its contents justify Gutenberg’s presence, the more it risks looking planted.
Accumulation rather than curation may be more convincing, but no directory design is yet locked.
39. Fake Google recognised as stronger camouflage
A genuine-looking search environment solves the directory’s existential problem because everybody already knows why Google exists and why Gutenberg might appear there.
However, merely displaying fake “search results” without Sp having actually searched creates another false action — and therefore another smell.
A convincing fake-search solution requires a natural route into the search environment.
40. ReaList route examined
An early ReaList performance showed Greg Rostami telling Sp to open Safari and enter an innocuous-sounding address:
“Google stats dot com.”
This established that ReaList’s original architecture did not depend on QR. QR appears to be a later convenience/input method.
41. Inject / Inject 2 studied as architectural precedent
The Inject 2 manual was obtained and examined.
Its core architecture converts Sp’s ordinary browser into a receiver connected to P’s transmitter/session.
Inject contains several receiver types and fake/general-purpose web-search environments rather than merely one fixed trick.
42. Inject URL-pairing method
One Inject method begins with Sp genuinely visiting Google.
P briefly handles Sp’s phone, apparently typing define, while secretly replacing the browser destination with a personalised Inject receiver such as googled.co/[userID].
The fake Google page appears with define already present, so Sp believes they remain on Google.
Ingenious, but unsuitable as Gut’s ideal because P must handle Sp’s phone.
43. Inject Auto Pair — the major Gut discovery
Inject 2 later eliminates P touching Sp’s phone.
Everyone can independently visit the same innocuous public entrance, googleimg.com. Shortly after Sp arrives, P performs a covert action on his own phone; Inject associates that particular browser visitor with P’s session.
Thus the public URL itself carries no performer or session identifier.
44. The principle extracted from Inject
Universal innocent entrance → new anonymous visitor → covert claim/pairing by P → private session thereafter
This principle — rather than Inject’s fake-Google cosmetics or particular tricks — is potentially directly applicable to Gut.
45. Proposed Gut pairing architecture
P opens NoBo and creates a new performance session in the Cloudflare tiny-data/state layer.
P covertly enters or establishes the force word and relevant state.
Gut waits for an unpaired Sp browser.
46. Sp independently enters Gut
P says only:
“Look, quickest way is to just go to is.gd/shortcuts.”
Sp types that themselves.
The short URL forwards to Gut’s universal public entry point. No session number, performer ID or force information need appear in the URL Sp types.
47. Gut reports arrival
When Sp’s browser reaches the Gut entry point, it creates an anonymous temporary browser/session ID and reports itself to Cloudflare as a newly arrived, currently unpaired visitor.
48. P covertly claims Sp
Within a short window after Sp arrives, P makes one innocuous/covert gesture in NoBo — tap, swipe or equivalent.
Cloudflare binds:
P’s active NoBo session ↔ Sp’s newly arrived Gut browser session
This is the Gut analogue of Rostami’s Auto Pair.
49. After pairing, the URL becomes irrelevant to state
From that point onward, NoBo and Gut communicate through the Cloudflare state layer.
P-side changes can affect the paired Gut browser; relevant Sp-side actions can be communicated back.
The visible URL does not need to encode the force word, performer, table, book or session.
50. Collision handling required
“Pair the latest visitor” is safe only when one relevant visitor is arriving.
Rostami explicitly addresses simultaneous-user collisions with keyword fallbacks.
Gut needs its own collision strategy before release, although it need not copy Rostami’s keyword solution.
51. Temporary pairing
Gut pairings should expire automatically after a sensible performance window — perhaps roughly 10–20 minutes — and/or be explicitly killed/reset by NoBo.
A subsequent performance begins clean.
52. Inject history-cleanup precedent
The Inject manual contains a section explicitly titled “Making your URL disappear (Table Numbers).”
It claims its generated table-number mechanism prevents the secret receiver URL being recovered through Back and, on iOS of that era, browser history.
This is useful precedent but must not be assumed valid for current 2026 Safari. Gut requires its own empirical testing.
53. Shorteners independently validated
Inject’s own manual explicitly notes that its preset URLs are short and tells performers they may use their preferred URL-shortening service to make them shorter or easier to remember.
Thus is.gd/shortcuts is not merely a desperate workaround. Rostami encountered the same presentation problem and explicitly contemplated shortening as one solution.
54. Inject Enhanced is not currently required for Gut
Gut does not need Inject Enhanced’s Swiss-Army-knife collection of search, image and other capabilities.
The valuable discovery so far is the underlying pairing architecture.
55. Inject Enhanced nevertheless remains worth dissecting
NoBo itself arose from examining an apparently “useless” $$$ enhancement to Digital Force Bag and asking what the principle could do outside its intended application.
Therefore the correct question is not:
“Does Gut need Inject Enhanced?”
but:
“Does Inject Enhanced contain a principle which becomes valuable when removed from Inject?”
56. Current status — PROPOSED, NOT BUILT OR VERIFIED
The Rostami-derived Gut architecture is presently a strong design hypothesis:
NoBo creates session → Sp independently enters universal Gut URL → Gut reports arrival → P covertly claims that visitor → Cloudflare pairs the browsers → performance proceeds
It has not yet been implemented or tested.
57. Most important consequence
If #44–56 work, is.gd/shortcuts genuinely is only a shortcut.
It need carry no secret information whatsoever.
Every spectator can enter through exactly the same public address; all dirty work occurs only after arrival.
This substantially reduces the psychological burden previously being placed on the Dropped-E domain and/or intermediary directory.
58. Ethical/commercial constraint — Inject
Subsequent study of Rostami’s Inject architecture has changed the status of the proposed Gut Auto Pair solution.
Although Gut was conceived independently and is a substantially different effect, the proposed architecture in #44–57 now knowingly draws on a significant methodological solution developed by Greg Rostami:
universal innocent entrance → anonymous Sp browser arrival → covert claim by P → server-side pairing → private session
This is qualitatively different from NoBo’s relationship to Digital Force Bag. NoBo took the small $$$ substitution principle and carried it into an effect and architecture remote from DFB. Gut’s proposed pairing solution sits much closer to a substantial part of Inject’s underlying machinery.
Therefore:
PRIVATE GUT: using/adapting the Inject-derived architecture for Stanley’s own experimentation or performance is not presently considered problematic.
COMMERCIAL GUT: the Inject-derived Auto Pair architecture is not to be used as the commercial solution. If Gut is ever marketed, Sp entry/pairing must be solved independently enough that the resulting method can reasonably be regarded as Gut’s own architecture rather than an additional handling/application of Inject.
Gut is not abandoned. The design problem has changed:
Find a genuinely independent solution to Sp entry/pairing.
Until then, #44–57 remain valuable research and a record of the proposed private architecture, but not the commercial specification.
Suggested action: append this as #58 to the canonical brief and freeze Gut engineering until The Shed produces another doorway.

GUT — PSEUDO MACHINE v0.2
	1	P begins the Improbability/H2G2 business on his phone.
	2	P apparently searches H2G2 while rambling about improbability.
	3	During that established NoBo action, P covertly enters [WORD].
	4	[WORD] is sent exactly as in NoBo. No new SP-browser pairing mechanism required.
	5	P directs SP to is.gd/shortcuts.
	6	SP types that themselves.
	7	Shortener resolves to the deliberately long gutenbrg.com/... address. SP never has to type or consciously examine the bastardized Gutenberg spelling.
	8	Landing page: BOOKS FROM PROJECT GUTENBERG.
	9	Brief neutral public-service copy.
	10	Make a start here:
	◦	Recent additions
	◦	Popular titles
	◦	Reader recommendations
	◦	Staff picks
	11	SP chooses any one.
	12	All four lead to the same ten-book selection.
	13	Ten feels like a real selection rather than an effect requirement; mechanically we need fewer, but ten stays.
	14	SP chooses any book.
	15	From here, NOBO ENGINE EXACTLY. No attempt to emulate Gutenberg's actual reader.
	16	SP chooses chapter.
	17	SP chooses page/location/flick according to the existing NoBo handling.
	18	Existing NoBo machinery delivers [WORD] to the required socket.
	19	SP discovers [WORD].
	20	Existing NoBo session behaviour applies: clean all other sockets/locations, preserve what needs preserving for the selected occurrence/session.
	21	SP can examine sufficiently afterward under the same clean-book logic already established for NoBo.
	22	Reset/session cleanup exactly as NoBo.
Which means Gut is much smaller than we were making it
We're not designing a second engine.
Gut = existing NoBo engine + SP's phone + new ten-book corpus + new front door.
And I agree on D. The shortener and gutenbrg.com do different jobs:
is.gd/shortcuts prevents SP having to type something that invites thought. gutenbrg.com/... gives the resulting portal a plausible permanent home once they're there.
The missing E can now be noticed without exposing anything, but there's still no earthly reason to make SP notice it during entry.
Private notes updated.
Suggested action: next build the pseudo machine one level deeper around the front door only: #5–13. Everything before and after is already NoBo.



